In the last lecture, you learned about the cloud service models of infrastructure as a service platform,
as a service and software as a service.
In this lecture, you'll learn about the cloud deployment models as defined by the NIST.
That's public cloud, private cloud, community cloud and hybrid cloud.
So the first one, Ecover, is public cloud.
The definition is the cloud infrastructure is provisioned for open use by the general public.
It may be owned, managed and operated by a business, academic or government organization or some combination
of them.
And it exists on the premises of the cloud provider to public cloud are all the really well known cloud
providers like Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, IBM, Blue Mix and Salesforce.
The first three do support all of the different service models.
Salesforce specialize in software as a service, but are still all public cloud providers and public
cloud is by far the most common deployment model.
The next tape is private cloud, the definitiveness is the cloud infrastructure is provisioned for exclusive
use by a single organization comprising multiple consumers, for example, business units like departments
within that company.
It may be owned, managed and operated by the organization, a third party or some combination of them.
And it may exist on or off premises.
So private cloud could be where you've got a large company and they're providing cloud services to their
own internal departments, that those cloud services could be managed by the company themselves or it
could be managed externally by a third party provider.
The main point is that these cloud services are dedicated for one organization.
It's not a public cloud where anybody can go and use private cloud works the same way as public cloud.
But the services are provided to internal business units, usually instead of to external public enterprises.
Private cloud fulfills the cloud essential characteristics.
So this is how it's different than a traditional on premises solution, because you might think, well,
private cloud, that's a company and owning and managing their own infrastructure and providing support
for broad internal departments while they were doing that already anyway with on premises solutions.
So how is a private cloud solution any different?
The reason is that it fulfills the cloud essential characteristics we always wear on demand self-service,
rapid elasticity, broad network access, resource pooling and measure service.
So if you think back to the example, when I gave you the demo of Amazon Web Services, which was on
public cloud, well, an organization could develop something like that for their own internal use.
The traditional on premises model, a business unit, orders a new server by raising a ticket with the
IT department.
The server is van provisioned and configured by the server, network and storage teams, a separate
manual processes, and it will typically take over a week with private cloud.
A business unit orders a new server, typically through a web portal, just like you saw me doing it
for Amazon Web Services.
The server is then completely, automatically provisioned without requiring manual intervention again,
just like with AWG.
So it works the same way rather than being for public external customers.
This is for your own internal business units.
The company will use automation software such as Cisco UCS director, so again, remember when I was
talking about Ash and we said that there was not front end software, which is usually managed, is
usually configured through a Web based GUI and not what gives you the self-service that then talks to
other software which talks to the actual hardware infrastructure devices like your firewalls, your
viewers, your switches for the networking, your storage system for storage on VMware or hypervisor
or Citrix for the server provisioning the front, the front end software and the software.
Just behind that you can use something like UCS director, which comes from Cisco for the resources
companies like BMC and SIA Technologies that do that as well.
So they can do the automation software which talks with the front end and then talks with the back end
as well.
There's another component that is going to be used for the automation of the networking configuration,
and that is in the end controller software defined networking.
Cisco have a few different ISDN products available, including DNA Santur.
I'll be covering software defined networking on DNS and or later in the network.
Automation and programmability action.
Private cloud is most suitable for large companies with a long term ROIC and efficiency gains can outweigh
the initial effort and cost to set out the infrastructure and automated workflows to set up private
cloud is a lot of work because you need to design software that is going to automate all of this.
You need to test it.
You need to set up all of your different workflows.
So it's a really big amount of work up front.
But once that work is all being done, you've seen that you can very quickly all the provisioning of
a server, just like we did with NWC.
We could just click from dropdown and just put in basic information.
It took a few minutes to fill out information in and then the server would be up and running in around
15 minutes each way quicker than doing it the traditional way, which I normally take about a week or
longer to provision and new server so that you get the big benefit in the end.
But it's a lot of work to be able to set that up.
So typically it's only going to be large companies which are going to have resources to be able to do
this.
That might change in future as new software comes out and makes this easier.
But for now, it's mostly large companies that would have private cloud.
Companies with private calling don't usually advertise that fact because it's private, so there's not
many examples I can give you of private cloud, but one is U.S. Department of Defense on private cloud
provided by an example of private cloud owned, managed and operated by a third party.
The third party is Amazon, and they provide cloud services to the U.S. Department of Defense infrastructure.
Its own separate physical infrastructure is only used by the U.S. Department of Defense.
It's not shared with anybody else.
What we're talking about, private cloud, something to mention here, some public cloud infrastructure
as a service providers look sometimes market dedicated servers as private cloud dedicated servers means
that the actual server hardware is dedicated for a single customer or not one physical server and no
other customers running on there.
But it's not private cloud because even though that server hardware is dedicated for one customer,
all of us supporting infrastructure like the switches routers are starting just to make sure it is shared
so they might market.
It is private cloud.
That's not really private cloud.
OK, the next one is community cloud, the definition of this, the cloud infrastructure is provisioned
for exclusive use by a specific community of consumers from organizations that have shared concerns.
So Private Cloud isn't a single organization.
Community Cloud is a shared community.
This is the by far the least common deployment model.
It is, however, sometimes used in government environments.
So again, this would really only make sense for government where they are huge organizations and separate
really large government departments that can come together and share a community cloud.
The last one is hybrid cloud definition of is the cloud infrastructure is a composition of two or more
distinct cloud infrastructures.
So it's a mix between private community or public that remain unique.
Entities are bound together by standardized or proprietary technology that enables the and application
portability, for example, cloud thing for load balancing between clouds.
So really the three types versus private community on public.
But if you mix and match any of those, that would quite that would kind of hybrid cloud.
So an example of this is that cloud burst thing that was mentioned in the definition.
So if a company has got their own private cloud infrastructure, but there's only so much, they've
only got so much hardware if they're running out of space, the option could be they could buy more
hardware, but maybe it's not possible to do that in their data center anymore.
So a way that they can scale their own private cloud infrastructure is they can then spill over into
using public cloud to get that additional capacity.
So that's cloud birthing is you've got your own internal cloud and you burst out to use an external
public cloud as well.
An example of where this is sometimes used as a company could also have their own private cloud, their
main site, and use public cloud for disaster recovery solution.
So they've gone to the expanse of building their own private cloud environment and Marouane Data Center.
But they're worried that there might be some kind of regional disaster that takes that data center.
So they want to have a disaster recovery site that they can feel over to.
They don't need that huge expansive building of our data center again.
So they could use a public cloud provider for that.
OK, so what was all of the different types of Shia in the next lecture?
For the last lecture in this cloud computing section where I'll summarize all the advantages that you
get from using cloud.